# General Terms of Use

These general conditions of use (called "GCU") set the legal framework
of the Platform "Nos Gestes Climat" and define the conditions of
access and use of services by the User.

## Article 1 - Scope of application

The use of the platform is free and open to all.

## Article 2 -- Purpose

The purpose of the Nos Gestes Climat platform is to evaluate the
individual annual carbon footprint of consumption, both in total and by
major categories (food, transport, housing, miscellaneous, public
services, digital), and to situate it in relation to climate objectives.
Depending on the answers and the result, personalized actions are
proposed.

See [the apropos page](/Ã -propos) for more details.

## Article 3 -- Definitions

the "User" is any person using the Our Climate Action platform.

The "Services" are the features offered by the platform to meet its
purposes.

"The controller" is the person who, within the meaning of Article 4 of
Regulation EU) No. 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to
the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data
determines the purposes and means of processing personal data.

## Article 4 - Functionalities

### 4.1 Individual simulation

The user accesses the simulator through the "take the test" button,
which starts a questionnaire to determine the carbon footprint. The
topics covered include food, transport, housing, public services, etc.

At any time, the user can click on the "understand the calculation"
button to learn more about the simulator.

### 4.2 Simulation under the group world: conference and survey

Thanks to the conference functionality, it is possible to carry out the
simulation with several people by clicking on the button " make the test
with several people ". A random link is generated to access the
conference, and random and anonymous names are assigned to the
participants.

In this case, the results are aggregated peer-to-peer with the other
participants of the conference. An average of the group is transmitted,
and compared to the French average.

The survey mode allows the same functionalities but via a centralized
server.

### 4.3 Broadcasting

Nos Gestes Climat is a public service, its code is free and reusable
by everyone under the MIT license, on this code repository:
https://github.com/datagir/nosgestesclimat-site.

It is possible to distribute the simulator in several ways without
mobilizing development skills. More information is available on the page
[" Diffuser ".](https://nosgestesclimat.fr/diffuser)

## Article 5 - Responsibilities

### 5.1 The Platform editor

The sources of the information published on the Platform are deemed
reliable but the site does not guarantee that it is free of defects,
errors or omissions.

The publisher is committed to the security of the Platform, in
particular by taking all necessary measures to ensure the security and
confidentiality of the information provided.

The publisher provides the necessary and reasonable means to ensure
continuous access to the Platform, without financial compensation. The
publisher reserves the right to change, modify or suspend, without prior
notice, the platform for maintenance reasons or for any other reason
deemed necessary.

## Article 6 - Updating the terms of use

The terms of these conditions of use may be amended at any time, without
prior notice, according to changes made to the platform, changes in
legislation or for any other reason deemed necessary.

The history of these updates is available in the open code repository
https://github.com/datagir/nosgestesclimat-site.
