# Privacy Policy

## Introduction

The simulation and calculations are done in your web browser, so the
answers to the questions stay with you, we do not collect any of them.

However, we do track some information about your use of this simulator,
such as pages viewed and time spent, for the sole purpose of improving
it.

In particular, we track the address of the end of simulation page, which
contains your total footprint and its breakdown into major categories
(transportation, housing, ...).

You can learn more and disable this tracking below.

The group simulation modes, conference and survey, use our servers to
aggregate multiple simulations and communicate them between
participants.

## Processing of personal data

The present Nos Gestes Climat platform is an initiative of the French
Agency for Ecological Transition, ADEME, which is responsible for
processing the personal data collected by the platform.

## Personal data processed

### a) Data related to the simulation

The data entered during the simulation is stored locally in the platform
user's browser. They are deleted when the user clears the data from his
browser or clicks on the "Start over" button on the [profile
page](/profil).

Within the framework of the group simulation, each participant is
assigned a random pseudonym (conference mode) or a random identifier
(survey mode) in order to remain anonymous.

In this sense, and according to the guidelines of the CNIL, the
processing is not considered as personal data processing.

### b) Data related to the results of the individual simulation

In particular, we track the address of the end of simulation page, the
name of the conference page, which contains the total of your footprint
and its distribution in large categories (transportation, housing, ...),
via the open tool of audience analysis of the Matomo websites, hosted by
data.gouv.fr.

### c) Data related to the results of the group simulation

In the group simulation, participants' results are aggregated with those
of other conference participants: total and categories (transportation,
housing, etc.). Also shared is the simulation progress from 0 to 1.

#### Conference mode

Conference mode is based on peer-to-peer technology: users connected to
a given conference via its URL are connected via a [reporting
server](https://github.com/yjs/y-webrtc). At this stage, no information
specific to nosgestesclimat is shared.

During the simulation in conference mode, the results described in the
introduction of paragraph c) are shared between each user, directly via
their internet connection.

#### Survey mode

The survey mode is based on a server hosted by ADEME via our provider
Scalingo, whose code is open and available [on
github](https://github.com/datagir/nosgestesclimat-server).

Before sharing any data with our server, the user is asked if he wants
to participate in the survey mode.

During the simulation in polling mode, the results described in the
introduction of paragraph c) are sent to the server, which in turn
shares them with each user of the poll.

The user has the possibility to quit the survey via the "Quit survey"
button. The user's data will remain in the survey results, but future
entries on the site will not be sent to the server.

### d) Cookies

Cookies are used to track the use of the simulator, such as pages viewed
and time spent, in order to improve the platform.

## Legal basis for data processing

The data processed during these treatments have several legal bases: -
The consent of the data subject for one or more specific purposes within
the meaning of Article 6-a of the GDPR and pursuant to Article 5(3) of
Directive 2002/58/EC as amended; - The performance of a task in the
public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the
controller within the meaning of Article 6-e of the GDPR ;

These grounds are specified below:

### a) Data relating to the results of the simulation

This processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out
in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested
in the controller within the meaning of Article 6-e of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of
personal data and on the free movement of such data. They enable
anonymized statistics on the carbon footprint in France to be produced.

### b) Cookies

Pursuant to Article 5(3) of Directive 2002/58/EC, as amended, concerning
the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the
electronic communications sector, transposed into Article 83 of Law No.
78-17 of January 6, 1978 on information technology, files and freedoms,
tracers or cookies follow two distinct regimes.

Cookies that are strictly necessary for the service or that do not have
the exclusive purpose of facilitating communication by electronic means
are exempt from prior consent under Article 83 of Law No. 78-17 of
January 6, 1978.

Cookies that are not strictly necessary for the service or whose
exclusive purpose is not to facilitate communication by electronic means
must be consented to by the user.

This consent of the data subject for one or more specific purposes
constitutes a legal basis within the meaning of the GDPR and must be
understood within the meaning of Article 6-a of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the
protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
and on the free movement of such data.

Audience measurement cookies, when the data is anonymized, do not
require consent. In this case, the platform uses Matomo in its
anonymized version, you can nevertheless oppose the tracking of your
navigation on this website, via the insert at the beginning of the
document.

## Duration of data storage

### Data related to the simulation

The data are kept locally on the browser until the action of the user to
erase the data from the browser, from the nosgestesclimat.fr domain in
particular, or via the [profile page](/profil).

### Data relating to the results of the simulation

The data are anonymized, once anonymized, the data are no longer
considered as personal data, the regulation relating to the protection
of personal data is no longer applicable. For more information see [the
CNIL
guide](https://www.cnil.fr/sites/default/files/atoms/files/guide_durees_de_conservation.pdf).

### Cookies

Upon withdrawal of consent or within 13 months, in accordance with the
recommendations of the CNIL.

### Rights of the persons concerned

When anonymization is effective, the RGPD no longer applies to the
anonymized data, which is no longer personal.

### Recipients of the data

The data controller undertakes to ensure that the data is only processed
by authorized persons.

### Subcontractors

Some data are sent to subcontractors to carry out certain missions. The
data controller has ensured that its subcontractors provide adequate
guarantees and respect strict conditions of confidentiality, use and
data protection.

### Web site hosting

The website is hosted by Netlify, as indicated in the legal notice on
the [about](/Ã -propos) page.

The survey data storage server is hosted by
[Scalingo](https://scalingo.com) SAS, 15 avenue du Rhin 67100 Strasbourg
France.

## Cookies

A cookie is a file deposited on your terminal when you visit a site. Its
purpose is to collect information about your navigation.

The site deposits cookies for audience measurement (in particular number
of visits, pages consulted), respecting the conditions of exemption of
the consent of the Internet user defined by the recommendation "Cookies"
of the National Commission for Information Technology and Liberties
(CNIL). This means, in particular, that these cookies are only used for
the production of anonymous statistics and do not make it possible to
follow the navigation of the Internet user on other sites.

We use Matomo, a free web audience measurement tool, configured to be in
conformity with the recommendation " Cookies " of the CNIL. This means
that your IP address, for example, is anonymized before being recorded.
It is therefore impossible to associate your visits to this site with
your person.

It should be noted that :

-   The data collected is not cross-referenced with other processing
-   The cookies do not make it possible to follow the navigation of the
    Net surfer on other sites

To go further, you can consult the sheets proposed by the National
Commission for Information Technology and Civil Liberties (CNIL):

-   [Cookies & trackers: what does the law
    say?](https://www.cnil.fr/fr/cookies-traceurs-que-dit-la-loi)
-   [Cookies: tools to control
    them](https://www.cnil.fr/fr/cookies-les-outils-pour-les-maitriser)
